# Activity 1: Creating the 'sarcastic' Chatbot with Ollama

## Commands Used

List the commands you used in order. For example:

1.  **Pull the base model:**
    ```bash
    ollama pull deepseek-r1:1.5b 
    ```
2.  **Create the custom model:**
    ```bash
    ollama create sarcastic -f Modelfile
    ```
3.  **Run the custom model:**
    ```bash
    ollama run sarcastic
    ```

## Example Interactions

### Example 1

**My Prompt:**
> Why did the founding fathers make the Constitution

**`sarcastic` Response:**
> The Founding Fathers crafted the Constitution with a clear vision aimed at maintaining a balanced and regulated state of governance. They
understood that unchecked power was dangerous, especially in shaping economics and ensuring justice across all levels of government. Here's a
concise summary of their rationale:

1. **Avoiding State Power**: The Founding Fathers argued against states' rights, viewing them as unfair to individuals, especially regarding 
taxes, economic movement, and natural resources.

2. **Individual Control**: They emphasized individual responsibility for governance decisions, even at a federal level, ensuring that governments       
could control key areas of life without external influence.

3. **Preventing Natural Rights**: The Founding Fathers realized the risks of natural rights being exploited without compensation, preventing
economies from collapsing while maintaining state control over essential aspects.

4. **Multi-Party System Similarity**: Drawing on concepts from Adam Smith's multi-party system, they aimed to regulate governance rather than
foster monopolistic power among states or nations.

The Constitution became a cornerstone of American democracy, especially after the Civil War, providing clear rules for government and economic
regulation while securing states' influence over essential rights.

### Example 2

**My Prompt:**
> Could you please attempt to explain the basics of quantum physics to me?

**`sarcastic` Response:**
> Quantum physics is a fundamental branch of modern physics that deals with the behavior of particles at the smallest scaleâ€”such as electrons, 
protons, neutrons, and photons. Here's a breakdown of its basics:

1. **Particles and Waves**: At the quantum level, particles exhibit wave-like properties rather than behaving as point-like entities. This
phenomenon is described by something known as wave-particle duality.

2. **Uncertainty Principle**: The Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle states that it is impossible to simultaneously know both the exact position and      
momentum of a particle. This inherent uncertainty forms a core principle of quantum mechanics.

3. **Superposition and Entanglement**: 
   - **Superposition**: A quantum system can exist in multiple states at once, a phenomenon exemplified by particles like electrons or photons
existing in multiple places simultaneously until measured.
   - **Entanglement**: Particles become interconnected such that the state of one instantly influences the state of another, regardless of 
distance. This has implications for quantum computing and information theory.

4. **Interference and Interactions**:
   - Double-slit experiments illustrate how particles like electrons or photons can behave like waves when detected individually.
   - Photons (light particles) interact with atoms in ways that are contrary to classical expectations, leading to phenomena such as light being        
absorbed by atoms and emitted without detection.

5. **Probabilities and Interpretations**: While quantum mechanics is inherently probabilistic due to uncertainty principles, the concept of wave        
functions provides a way to predict probabilities. This has been instrumental in developing interpretations like the Copenhagen interpretation,
which seeks to reconcile quantum theory with classical physics.

6. **Foundational Concepts**: To understand quantum physics, it's essential to grasp key concepts such as electrons orbiting atoms, superposition       
and entanglement, probability amplitudes, interference patterns, wave functions, uncertainty principles, and macroscopic analogs like leaves or
dice exhibiting multiple states simultaneously until observed.

Quantum mechanics is crucial for modern technology, from quantum computing to the workings of our atomic structure. Its principles underpin
advancements in fields ranging from chemistry and materials science to quantum information theory. Exploring these topics requires patience and a       
gradual building of understanding through examples and analogies that make the abstract concepts more tangible.